Now that we've pulled in our data,
let's discuss the next steps,
starting with the importance
of cleaning our data.
So let's go over the learning goals for
the section.
We're going to go over, why data cleaning
is important for machine learning?
Think garbage-in, garbage-out.
Our models can only be
as good as our data.
Some issues that arise with messy data and
ways in which data can be
messy in the first place.
How to identify duplicate or unnecessary
data and how to handle that accordingly.
And policies for dealing with outliers,
and the pros and
cons of different methods,
as there's not one size that fits all.
So why is data cleaning so important?
We know that decisions in analytics are
increasingly driven by data and models.
And key aspects of our
Machine Learning Workflow
are getting depend on cleaned data.
Observations, an instance of the data
usually a row of the dataset.
Think if a row, an observation is
not clean, we are misrepresenting
to our model, the relationship
between our features and our targets.
Our labels have to be labeled correctly,
right,
our output variables being predicted.
We need to make sure that they
are all labeled appropriately.
We can think to ImageNet,
which we discussed where we're
labeling all the pictures.
And if humans were labeling the pictures
in order to create that dataset,
if they mislabeled one of those pictures,
then it will mislead our model.
Our algorithms, the computer programs that
estimate models based on available data,
we need to recognize that our
algorithms are going to be learned,
assuming the data accurately
represents a real world.
Our features, the information we have for
each information,
if the recording of certain features
are out, such as transaction amounts or
locations with fraud, think about how
easily that can throw off fraud detection.
And then the model itself,
the hypothesized relationship
between observations and data.
The model itself is going to be assuming
that this is actual data
representing the real world.
So, the bottom line is, messy data can
lead to "garbage-in, garbage-out" effect,
and therefore unreliable
outcomes given our dataset.
So, the first step must always be
to ensure that our data is clean.
So, what are some problems that companies
face in regard to having clean data?
Be a lack of data.
For model to be successful,
there must be sufficient relevant data.
And if not, companies need to start
by ensuring that they are collecting
the appropriate data, or if needed,
acquiring additional data from third
parties, and making all that data
accessible throughout their organization.
Now although a lack of data can hamper
AI adoption, the same can be said for
having too much data.
When companies have too much data spread
across different environments and
databases, it quickly becomes
a data engineering problem.
In this instance, companies need
to collect and organize their data
to make it ready to even consider getting
into leveraging it for machine learning.
And then just bad data, garbage-in,
garbage-out, as we said earlier.
The problem is that even though business
leaders list improving the use of data as
a top priority, 60% are challenged by
managing data quality in the first place.
So, the first step for any organization to
get started with artificial intelligence
or machine learning, is ensuring that
their data is actually ready for use.
So how can data be messy?
What do we mean by messy data and
have data duplicates that can
bring extra weight to observations to
our model or bring in unnecessary noise?
So, if we think about our example of fraud,
if we have a certain
credit card transaction that was fraud,
and that's repeated 200 times with
the label of fraud, all those features
that led to that fraud will have a lot
more weight because it was accidentally
duplicated that many more times.
Inconsistent text and typos, data will
often depend on correct spelling.
You have to have no extra spaces,
the capitalized versus
non-capitalized letters.
This will all lead to the same feature,
the same value for a feature,
being categorized as different
values within the same feature set,
even though they should be
categorized as the same.
And that missing data,
and that should be something we'll have to
deal with to some degree, no matter what.
But too much in the wrong fields, can lead
to an inability to use certain features,
which otherwise may have
been powerful predictors.
Outliers will occur that can skew
a feature disproportionately and
make it difficult to find
the true underlying model.
We can have data sourcing issues.
We have trouble bringing in
data from multiple systems, or
working with different database types,
or trying to wrangle and
combine data coming from on-premises
versus on-the-cloud or many others.
And trying to pull in data from all
these different data sources can lead to
mismatch when trying to
talk about the same data
when it's being pulled in
from different sources.
So, let's start off with,
how do we work with duplicated data?
You want to dive in and see if duplicate
observations are indeed needed or not.
It's possible for Iris dataset, for
example, to have duplicates if two flowers
are indeed exactly the same, they have
the same exact measurements for sepal and
petal length, and
they are the same species.
That could happen out in the wilds,
given that we're only going
up to two decimal points.
And we probably want to keep
both those observations in place
if that's happening in the real world.
Now, for trying to label pictures,
for example, we probably don't want to
have duplicate of the same exact picture,
because that's not going to help
in our labeling process at all.
It's always a good idea to
look at the features and
filter the data first to get
a better look at the duplicates.
Just in case, I would always
suggest not to filter too much
to ensure you keep access to the initial
data that may be useful later on now.
Now, that's it for this section.
In the next section, we're going to
talk about working with missing values,
as well as working with outlier values.
I look forward to seeing you there.